--- 
layout: post
title: SAS (Singapore American School) Class of 2000 reunion in Las Vegas
wordpress_id: 57
wordpress_url: http://www.pintmaster.com/wordpress/20050406/57/
---
I received the following in my email:


Hi everyone,

Some of you may not remember me...and some of you may not know me
because I only attended SAS from 1998-2000...Those of you that
remember me -- hi!

You may or may not already be aware of the 5-year reunion that I am
planning for this summer in Las Vegas. The tentative date that was
posted on SAS' alumni website
(http://www.sas.edu.sg/sasalumni/alumni/alumni.htm) probably won't
happen due to feedback that I've gotten. I'd like to propose either
the weekend of June 10-12 or July 9-11. If you are interested in
attending the reunion and have a preference for one of the dates,
please email me asap so we can get this hammered down and start making
transportation and hotel arrangements.

I imagine the reunion to be relatively informal. Mostly free time to
spend with friends and at least one group meal and/or night outing. An
alum from SAS '96 is a travel agent and is getting me group hotel
quotes, but if any of you have hotel contacts that could help, please
let me know. I think in terms of transportation, it'll be easier for
everyone to take care of their own since we'll be coming from all
over, some flying, some driving, etc.

So far I know of about 25ish people who are interested in this
reunion. I hope that more of you are but just didn't know about it.
Please email me if you're interested so we can get more accurate hotel
quotes. I haven't even seen some of my good SAS friends since
graduation, and I'm sure I'm not the only one...so I really hope we
can get a good turnout for this!

I got this email list from the alumni office; I know it's incomplete
and probably outdated, so if you could forward this on to any SAS '00
friends that you are still in touch with, I'd really appreciate it.
Special thanks to those of you who have expressed interest already! So
-- spread the word, let me know of your preferences, and please don't
hesitate to contact me with any questions or suggestions. Hope to hear
from you soon!

Take care,

Vicki Chen
