--- 
layout: post
title: Macbook Pro - You have to go backward to go forward - especially when there is a brick wall in front of you
wordpress_id: 104
wordpress_url: http://www.pintmaster.com/wordpress/20060111/macbook-pro-you-have-to-go-backward-to-go-forward-especially-when-there-is-a-brick-wall-in-front-of-it/
---
Lets face it. Apple hit limitations with the architecture on their old Powerbooks. Sure, they could upgrade the screen, they could put bluetooth on, put every bell and whistle you can think of. Did that give the user more Power? Not really. It gave the user a portable swiss army knife. Sure, it's nice to have all of these things on my 1.25 ghz powerbook that I bought a couple of years ago when it came out. What did I really want? More power. The <a href="http://www.unsanity.org/archives/000445.php">linked article at unsanity</a> serves as an excellent disclaimer. Buyer beware!!!! The MacBook does not include "XYZ"! Apple did a good job covering up the "missing" features by really hyping up the good things about it. Keep in mind though that this is a new platform for Apple. It is a big feat to switch to the x86 platform and this is their first try. I would bet that this new laptop is A.) better than 90% of the intel based laptops out there, and probably the best first attempt by a laptop producer to make a laptop around an intel chip. There are going to be problems with it... sure. Even on my Powerbook, my magnetic latch doesnt always close properly (or stay closed) and sometimes I get electric shocks from the Aluminum shell. There are many nice features that are missing, but if you dont like the laptop, dont buy it. Register your complaints with apple and if enough consumers want it they will build the features in. 

I am looking forward to getting one of these babys and honestly, the only thing holding me back that the article had mentioned was the potential problem loading Windows XP. I am pretty confident someone will find a workaround, and until then my 2500 will stay firmly in my pocket.
